Notes of Elastic Serach:-
Apache Lucene:
Apache Lucene is a free and open-source search engine software library, originally written completely in Java.
Elasticsearch running on single machine is termed as Node(Has unique id and name) and collection of node forms Cluster(nodes join in cluster using cluster name)

Document, types, Index, Shards and Replica :

Document is basic unit of information expressed in JSON which need to be indexed and it resides within index. Each document is assigned to a type.
Type is logical partitioning of documents (user defined grouping semantics), in general document belong to same fields belong to one type.
All of the types of documents make up an index.
An index can be split into multiple shards.
If Documents in an index is too large to fit in hard drive of one node or too slow to serve all search requests from one node then we split the index across multiple nodes in cluster 
that is termed as Shards. 
A shard can be replicated Zero or more times. By default in Elasticsearch an index has 5 shards and 1 replica.

Shards:-
An index can potentially store a large amount of data that can exceed the hardware limits of a single node. 
For example, a single index of a billion documents taking up 1TB of disk space may not fit on the disk of a single node or may be too slow to serve search requests from a single node alone.

To solve this problem, Elasticsearch provides the ability to subdivide your index into multiple pieces called shards. When you create an index, you can simply define the number of shards that you want. 
Each shard is in itself a fully-functional and independent "index" that can be hosted on any node in the cluster.

Sharding is important for two primary reasons:

It allows you to horizontally split/scale your content volume.
It allows you to distribute and parallelize operations across shards (potentially on multiple nodes) thus increasing performance/throughput.

Replicas:-
In a network/cloud environment where failures can be expected anytime, it is very useful and highly recommended to have a failover mechanism in case a shard/node somehow goes offline or disappears for whatever reason. To this end, Elasticsearch allows you to make one or more copies of your index’s shards into what are called replica shards, or replicas for short.

Replication is important for two primary reasons:

It provides high availability in case a shard/node fails. For this reason, it is important to note that a replica shard is never allocated on the same node as the original/primary shard that it was copied from.
It allows you to scale out your search volume/throughput since searches can be executed on all replicas in parallel.